right so making money from your hobbies
or your passions can be a really good
thing to do and it's completely changed
my life but it does have its potential
dangers and drawbacks so in this episode
of money club the ongoing series where
we discuss the strategies and tools that
can help us along our shared journey
towards financial independence we're
going to be talking about firstly why
you should consider trying to monetize
your passions or your hobbies secondly
i'll share some tips on how to do it
having done it lots of times myself and
thirdly we'll talk about the potential
dangers and how you can help avoid those
risks of making money from your hobbies
oh and thank you so much to shopify for
sponsoring this video but more on them a
little bit later part one why you should
consider monetizing your hobbies so
firstly there's the obvious thing of if
you're making money from doing a thing
that you love then you never have to
work a day in your life and there is
some truth to that i am now like a
youtuber um and so i'm kind of making
money from doing the thing that i love
and that is pretty sick and it means
that on days like this i can take a step
back and think huh this is actually
pretty cool that i get to do the thing
that i love and get to make stupid
amounts of money from it as well and
it's just generally a nice place to be
but to be honest there's a lot of
benefits of monetizing your passions and
hobbies that aren't just if you somehow
manage to make it a full-time thing one
of the main ones is that when you try
and monetize a thing that you're
passionate about or a thing that you do
as a hobby it actually encourages you to
get better at the thing so for example
for me i monetized close-up magic i was
a fan of close-up magic i was a magician
for a few years on my webcam in front of
my mirror but when i started performing
for audiences and started trying to get
paid gigs at a restaurant and at
university balls and parties that really
helped me hone the craft of magic and in
a way unlocked a different side of the
passion that i just hadn't really
appreciated the side of performing for
real people and trying to add value to
real people's lives it also as a side
effect taught me a bunch of other skills
like how to sell and how to market
myself and getting over the fear of
rejection when doing auditions for these
balls and parties that i was performing
at and i think if i hadn't tried to
monetize my hobby for close-up magic in
that way i would i would have just had a
lot fewer of these skills and those
skills have really helped me throughout
my life as well the other benefit of
monetizing hobbies is that it just adds
this extra layer of fun to it so for
example let's say you're playing the
guitar and you're enjoying playing the
guitar and learning all these new songs
and stuff all of a sudden if you start
trying to make money from it by for
example teaching the guitar or by for
example busking in your local town
center it's really cool because it adds
this extra element of challenge to the
thing provided you don't make it your
full-time job we're going to talk more
about that later on in the video about
why that's potentially bad provided you
don't make your full-time job and you
make pocket money from doing this thing
you can treat it as a bit of an
adventure as a bit of a challenge while
doing the thing that you love but you're
not reliant on it for your actual
survival and of course the final benefit
of monetizing your hobbies is that money
is ultimately an exchange of value which
we're going to talk about throughout
this video and so by virtue of making
money from the thing that you're
passionate about you're actually adding
value to people's lives because
otherwise they won't pay you for the
thing that you're doing and so it's
really this like win-win-win scenario
where you're doing the thing that you
enjoy you're making money from it which
then helps fund your life for the other
things that you want to do or even just
becomes a little bit of a side hustle
revenue stream and you're also adding
value to people and that's just like
generally good things all round oh also
one thing i forgot to mention uh if the
money starts to become interesting like
if you start making a few hundred or
maybe even a few thousand dollars from
monetizing your passion it means you
could potentially go part-time on your
day job you could free up time you could
get more autonomy and all these things
are great but obviously that requires a
certain level of income from the thing
part two how to actually monetize your
passion so the thing to keep in mind
here is that money is ultimately just an
exchange of value and therefore in order
to make money you have to be able to
provide value to someone who is willing
to pay you for the money money does not
just grow on trees you don't just
randomly make money from doing a thing
which is not valuable to society yeah
you have to actually add value first and
so if you want to make money from your
passion then by definition that passion
needs to be able to add value to someone
else so how do you figure this out well
there's a few different ways you can go
about it the first way you can go about
it is you can think about who is the
person or the community or the group of
people that you ideally want to add
value to so let's say for example i have
a passion for playing the guitar if i
think about who i can add value to well
i could add value to an audience because
they might pay me to hear me perform my
guitar i could add value to kids who
want to learn the guitar i could add
value to adults who might want to learn
the guitar i could add value to people
who run local community groups at my
local church or youth camps or
volunteering programs because they might
want to hire me as a performer for one
of their parties i could potentially add
value to restaurant owners who might
want background music it's like just
taking this thing that i'm passionate
about and instead of asking the question
how do i make money from playing the
guitar it's like who are the potential
people i can add value to because
ultimately the only way you make money
is by providing value and usually
providing value means solving a specific
problem for someone else which brings us
on to step two of the method whatever we
want to call it which is figure out what
problems these sorts of people have
again money is about solving problems
and so if you can list out all of the
problems that someone might have you can
then try and figure out a way of like
huh does me playing the guitar or me
doing close-up magic or teaching
close-up magic or making a website or
doing graphics or whatever my passion
might be is that something that i could
potentially use to solve that specific
problem like i had a friend at
university whose passion was attending
museums just freaking loved attending
the natural history museum and stuff and
when he was thinking about how to
monetize this passion for attending
museums he was thinking well i suppose i
could write about it i could like i
don't know do tours of the museum but
what he stumbled on was like a stupidly
profitable side hustle where he found
basically rich families who wanted their
kids to essentially be babysat but to
also have this culturally relevant
experience and so he offered this like
bougie babysitting service to kids of
rich families who wanted their kids to
be taken to museums to learn about
history and so this guy combined his
passion for going to museums with his
general enjoyment of like hanging around
kids and turned it into just i think he
was making like a few thousand pounds a
month from just this thing alone so it's
just about thinking a little bit outside
the box you might think hey hey the fact
i enjoy going to museum is not something
that can be monetized but by just
thinking a little bit outside and by
thinking in terms of whose problems you
can solve by using this skill or this
hobby or your passion that you've got it
can really unlock interesting revenue
opportunities if that's what you want to
do all right so tip number three on how
to make money from your passions is
figure out how you can combine different
passions or different things that you're
interested in to create a killer
combination which is more likely to
attract an audience who's going to pay
for it so what do i mean by this let's
say you are a guitar player and you just
freaking love playing the guitar it's
kind of hard to make lots of money
playing the guitar because loads of
people want to do it it's just a single
skill but if you can combine it with
something else for example let's say you
also have an interest in teaching and
you like the idea of teaching kids now
you've taken the idea of i want to teach
kids and i'm good at it too i enjoy
playing the guitar and you've combined
those to create a niche of i teach kids
how to play the guitar again this is not
a particularly interesting example
because there's loads of guitar teachers
out there but can you for example
combine other things you're interested
in you know i'm interested in teaching
i'm interested in the guitar i'm
interested in ed sheeran and disney pop
music and so can you be like hey i have
a program that teaches kids how to play
guitar but i don't teach them boring ass
scales and classical acoustic guitar
instead i teach them how to play songs
that they all know and their parents are
like oh my god you can teach my kid how
to play let it go from frozen and you'll
be like yeah i can play them on guitar
and like it's just about layering these
different combinations to figure out how
can i provide value in a unique and
potentially interesting way all right so
tip number four is to figure out what
are the different vehicles for your
value delivery so again comes down to
this general principle making money is
about providing value and generally the
two main ways of providing value are by
creating goods or by selling services so
when it comes to goods you can ask
yourself what can i make that people
need or want which will therefore add
value to their life and when it comes to
services you can ask yourself what can i
do that other people want or need or
don't want to do that can therefore add
value to their life and it's again it's
a pretty simple thing but like you know
within the realm of goods there's
physical goods and digital goods i like
digital goods personally because they
don't have a cost of reproduction it's a
lot very easy you're very unlikely to
lose money on those things and when it
comes to services there's like a zillion
things that you could do within whatever
industry whatever hobby whatever passion
you happen to be in but just thinking
about those two different methods of
value delivery services are generally a
pretty easy place to start like teaching
the guitar to random people in your
neighborhood or providing busking as a
service it's generally a lot harder to
make goods or create products or create
stuff but generally the goods thing is
much more scalable and isn't directly
tied to your time so again you just
might want to think about it in those
two dimensions when it comes to figuring
out how to make money from your hobby
and to be honest if you're interested in
selling any kind of good or any kind of
service either in person or online your
single best way of doing that is by
using shopify who are very kindly
sponsoring this video shopify is amazing
it's a fantastic all-in-one easy to use
e-commerce platform that lets you sell
basically anything to people in over 175
countries with hundreds and hundreds of
different payment methods it makes it
super easy to make a website where you
can sell your goods or services if you
want to monetize your passions but it
also helps you sell directly on social
and so for example you can sell things
on instagram or on tick tock where
there's already an audience built into
the thing so you don't have to
necessarily go out and find your own
audience to go to your website shopify
powers all sorts of businesses from
small ones like my online store where i
sell my little stationery and some of my
courses all the way to huge absolutely
enormous brands like gymshark and
overall it's just an incredible platform
that really scales with you every step
of the way they've got thousands and
thousands of integrations with all sorts
of services and so if you want to dabble
with drop shipping you can if you want
to get logistics and distribution for a
physical product taken care of you can
all of these different third-party apps
can plug directly into shopify and so it
makes it super easy to run your store as
a part-time gig if you want to learn
more then head over to shopify.com
forward slash ali abdal and you can find
out more on that website and also start
a free trial so thank you so much
shopify for sponsoring this video tip
number five if you want to make money is
to appreciate like what are the areas
like what are the overlaps of audience
and value that actually leads to making
more money than usual now generally if
you can provide a good or a service that
helps people save time or that helps
people make money the roi the return on
investment on that thing for that person
is going to be very tangible and so
you're far more likely to make money
from the thing alternatively if you
choose your audience in a way that
you're choosing people who have money
and who want to spend money it's a lot
easier to make money than if you target
people who are completely broke this is
why famously i don't like selling stuff
to students i don't like targeting
students as an audience for stuff
because students famously don't have
money and don't like spending money
whereas if you target parents if for
example you're teaching kids how to play
the guitar you wouldn't actually be
targeting the kids themselves because
kids don't have money to spend on that
service you might be targeting the
parents and so that might inform like
what flyers you give out or like what
facebook groups you're part of because
those are the parents who have the money
who want to spend that money on their
kids and finally tip number six which i
think is a very underappreciated way of
making money is to recognize the
difference between selling to an
individual and selling to a business so
if you sell to an individual people are
buying stuff for their personal life
whereas if you're selling to a business
or a business owner they are buying
stuff for their business now you only
really start to fully appreciate this
when you own a business but the way that
for example i as a business owner owner
think about spending money in my
business is completely different to how
i think about spending money in my
personal life because i know that when i
spend money on my business a it's tax
deductible and therefore i'll just
almost throw money away in the business
for things because i know i'm saving on
tax on it secondly when i spend money
from the business the amount of money in
the business bank account and the
business assets is astronomically higher
than the amount of money that i have
personally as an individual for various
reasons and this is basically true of
all business owners as well and thirdly
when i spend money as a business i know
that i'm going to get some kind of
return on it whether it's saving time or
making money or any of those things
whereas when i spend money as an
individual it's a lot harder to
appreciate the roi of that and so this
is actually a surprisingly simple way of
actually making money from your passions
figure out how can i possibly sell this
as a service to a local business it's so
hard to sell stuff to individuals people
are very very very price sensitive even
if you if you're just trying to sell
someone who has loads of money they're
going to be very price sensitive in
their personal life but they're going to
be completely price insensitive in their
business life and this is actually an
untapped market like most people when
they think about trying to make money
because you are an individual probably
if you're watching this rather than a
business owner and therefore you're
thinking like an individual the problems
that you're imagining that you can solve
are problems that other individuals have
but as soon as you get any amount of
experience in a business or running a
business or working for a business or
having some kind of management role in
the business you start to appreciate oh
my freaking god there are all these
problems out there that all of these
local businesses face no one is like
helping them solve these problems and so
if i can be the one to provide that
service i could potentially make large
amounts of money part three the dangers
of trying to make money from your
hobbies so we've talked about all the
reasons why making money from your
hobbies is a good thing and i've shared
a few tips that i found personally
helpful that other people i know have
found helpful for making money from
their hobbies but there is like a darker
side to this and that is that sometimes
and in some circumstances making money
from your hobbies can actually
completely remove the joy of the hobby
itself let's say your hobby is to do art
and you really enjoy making paintings of
scenes from fantasy books or whatever
and you then try to make it your
full-time job what you're going to find
is that actually you're spending 90 of
your time doing random business admin
trying to do sales and marketing and get
leads and deal with clients and find
commissions for your artwork trying to
upload them to appropriate platforms
trying to build an audience all of the
stuff which is basically not actually
doing the art i've got plenty of friends
at this point who are musicians and
until they get to the point where
they've got a manager or a business
manager who can deal with all that faff
they end up finding that they're
spending like 10 of their time doing the
music thing which is the thing they love
and the rest of their time actually
trying to deal with the machinery that
comes with trying to turn that thing
into a business and so really the way to
get around this is to appreciate that
this is going to be a thing and to not
feel the need to make your hobby into a
full-time job yes you can do it yes
you'll probably you know enjoy it to an
extent but if you have like a job a day
job that you enjoy and that's like
paying the bills and stuff it's it's
totally okay to keep your hobby as a
hobby you might see people like me it's
all about side hustles passive income
all that kind of stuff and you might
think that thing of like you know if you
if you monetize your passion you'll
never have to work a day in your life
but like you will like i'm at this point
i know loads of people who are full-time
creators allegedly making a living from
doing the thing that they love they all
think of it as work or as a chore some
of the time including myself and it's
it's actually quite hard to kind of
counteract that intrinsic bias towards
feeling like something's a bit of a
chore when it becomes the source of your
livelihood and so if you're going to go
down that route monetizing your hobbies
try your best to a not necessarily make
it a requirement to survive to sustain
your life even if the income is
astronomical astronomical it's still
useful to have you know diverse multiple
streams of income and secondly try your
best to retain autonomy to retain
control and power over the thing that
you're doing because generally as we've
seen from the research autonomy power
control leads to that feeling of
intrinsic motivation but as soon as you
start doing the thing for someone else
for the sake of someone else or for the
sake of an extrinsic instrumental reason
it kind of sucks some of the joy out of
the thing anyway if you enjoyed this
video and you got to this point then
thank you so much for watching you might
like to check out the rest of the videos
in the money club playlist so i made a
little playlist for you right over here
that you can check out thank you so much
for watching and see you in the next
video bye